*********************************************
* Key Signing Policy for <YOUR NAME HERE>   *
* Version 2022-01-23                        *
*********************************************

<YOUR PGP FINGERPRINT HERE>

This policy is used for signatures made by my GnuPG key <KEY ID> -
starting from <DATE>.  (Some signatures before this date were also
made under the following conditions.  However, no key was ever signed
without checking the identity of the person based on a government-issued
ID-card and without checking the fingerprint of the respective key.)

I am more than happy to sign other people's public keys, assuming the
steps outlined in this policy are followed.  However, when I agree to
sign someone else's key, I expect that they will be willing and able to
sign my public key in return.  This will help to strengthen the web of
trust with mutual verification.


REQUIREMENTS BEFORE SIGNING A KEY

The following requirements need to be met by the signee:

   - Meet in person, either individually or at a key signing party;
   - Prepare a printed copy of the fingerprint of your key, including
     all UIDs you want to have signed by me;
   - Present at least one valid government-issued photo ID.

The following requirements need to be met by the key / the UIDs of the
key:

   - The key contains a self-signature of the signee;
   - The key is not revoked and the (optional) validity date of the key
     is (reasonable far away) in the future;
   - The UIDs contain the real name of the signee which is stated in the
     government-issued ID.

Note:  I won't sign anonymous or pseudonymous UIDs, i.e. I must be able
to tie the UID to your name on the government-issued ID.

Note:  Ideally, you tell me before the meeting which kind of ID you
would like present so I am able to understand its security features when
checking the ID, especially if you plan to present a foreign ID to me.
I will only sign a key if I feel comfortable that you really are who you
claim to be.


VERIFICATION

Before I sign a key, I

   - Verify the identity of the person owning the to-be-signed key by
     looking at their identity card or equivalent official proof of
     identity;
   - Receive the key fingerprint from the key owner (this may be on a
     piece of paper or the fingerprint is confirmed by the owner during
     a key signing party).

A signature is always on the UID.  By signing an UID, I confirmed for
myself that at the moment of the check

   - The person who gave me the fingerprint of that key was reasonable
     identifiable on the government-issued ID;
   - The government-issued ID was valid and did not cause any
     suspicion/indication of fraud;
   - The claimed name could be tied to the to-be-signed UID.


SIGNING PROCESS

Upon achieving positive identification, exchange of written or printed
and confirmed copies of the fingerprint of the public key, along with
the UID(s) to be signed and the signer's email address to which the
signing request will be sent, the signee will send an email to the
signer's specified email address for each UID he or she wishes to have
signed.  Each email must be signed with the signee's private key, and
the sending email address must match the UID exactly.

After verification of the signee's signature, the fingerprint of the
public key and the UID, I will then locally sign each UID requested.

After signing a UID of a signee's public key, I will send an email
encrypted to that specific UID, including the signed public key.  I will
sign this email with my own key.

When you receive this email, you may import my signature into your
public key ring.  You may also push the signature to a public key server
(if you wish to do so).

Requiring the signee to send a signed email from each UID address and
then sending the signed public keys back to the UID address encrypted
ensures that the signee has control of both the email account claimed by
the UID and the public/private key pair used by the signee.  Skipping
either of these steps could potentially allow signatures to be made
which do not accurately reflect the true identity of the signee.


SIGNING SUBSEQUENT KEYS BEFORE EXPIRATION/REVOCATION OF OLD KEYS

If I have signed your public key and it is set to expire in the near
future, or if you decide to generate a new key pair and revoke your old
public key, I will sign your new public key without needing to meet in
person if the following conditions are met:

   - Send me an email signed with your old key.  This email needs to
     list the full fingerprint of the new key, along with the new
     primary UID (even if it remains as the old key);
   - The old key must not have expired or been revoked before the email
     is sent;
   - The new public key is self-signed by the signee's old and new key;
   - When I receive your message and verify its signature, I will send
     you a signed email acknowledging receipt;
   - Then follow the signing process as outlined above using the newly
     generated key to sign your email request.

Note:  I will only sign the new primary UID and any sub-UIDs that I had
previously signed on the old key.  New sub-UIDs will be signed at my
discretion.


MISCELLANEOUS

Signatures by my GnuPG key(s) do not have any legal relevance.
Especially they do not comply to the characteristics of a "qualifizierte
elektronische Signatur" (qualified electronic signature) as outlined in
§2 Nr. 3 Gesetz über Rahmenbedingungen für elektronische Signaturen
(SigG 2001).


CHANGELOG

2014-01-07    Implementation of the policy.
2022-01-23    Upload to Github
